README.md, before:

# Repo Template

## Abstract

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim
veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea
commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate
velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint
occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt
mollit anim id est laborum.

## Project Organization

- `/code` Scripts with prefixes (e.g., `01_import-data.R`,
  `02_clean-data.R`) and functions in `/code/src`.
- `/data` Simulated and real data, the latter not pushed.
- `/figures` PNG images and plots.
- `/output` Output from model runs, not pushed.
- `/presentations` Presentation slides.
- `/private` A catch-all folder for miscellaneous files, not pushed.
- `/renv` Project library, once initialized (see below).
- `/writing` Case studies and the paper.
- `renv.lock` Information on the reproducible environment.

## Reproducible Environment

Every package you install lives in your system library, accessible to
all projects. However, packages change. Add a reproducible environment
by creating a project library using the `{renv}` package.

- Initialize the project library *once* using `renv::init()`.
- Once you’ve installed packages, add them to the project library using
  `renv::snapshot()`.
- If a project library already exists, install the associated packages
  with `renv::restore()`.

For more details on using GitHub, Quarto, etc. see [Research Assistant
Training](https://github.com/marcdotson/ra-training).

Commit message:

Updating template to include venv and renv

README.md, after:

# Repo Template


## Abstract

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim
veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea
commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate
velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint
occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt
mollit anim id est laborum.

## Project Organization

- `/code` Scripts with prefixes (e.g., `01_import-data.py`,
  `02_clean-data.py`) and functions in `/code/src`.
- `/data` Simulated and real data, the latter not pushed.
- `/figures` PNG images and plots.
- `/output` Output from model runs, not pushed.
- `/presentations` Presentation slides.
- `/private` A catch-all folder for miscellaneous files, not pushed.
- `/renv` Project library, once initialized (see below).
- `/writing` Case studies and the paper.
- `/.venv` Hidden project library, not pushed.
- `.gitignore` Hidden Git instructions file.
- `.python-version` Hidden Python version for the reproducible
  environment.
- `renv.lock` Information on the reproducible environment.
- `requirements.txt` Information on the reproducible environment.

## Reproducible Environment

### Python

After cloning this repository, go to the project’s terminal in Positron
and run `python -m venv .venv` to create the `/.venv` project library,
followed by `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install the specified
library versions.

Whenever you install new libraries or decide to update the versions of
libraries you use, run `pip freeze > requirements.txt` to update
`requirements.txt`.

### R

Add a reproducible environment by creating a project library using the
`{renv}` package.

- Initialize the project library *once* using `renv::init()`.
- Once you’ve installed packages, add them to the project library using
  `renv::snapshot()`.
- If a project library already exists, install the associated packages
  with `renv::restore()`.

For more details on using GitHub, Quarto, etc. see [ASC
Training](https://github.com/marcdotson/asc-training).
